
how to do -> 
- just add to HashMap and increase frequency by times of occurrence of string.
- then make a priority queue. then use lambda function to sort it. sort it basis of the create a min heap where we will remove the lower frequency string and if the frequency is equal then we do sort according to the lexographically order smaller string.
- we will compareTo method to compare the string. bcz we can't compare directly using t-o we have to use compareTo method to compare to string.
- now add to priority queue. and then remove if pq size go above k size. 
- and then add all the value into the array list and then reverse it list and then return it list.
- we have to reverse the string. 
- and why doing compareTo. and why o.compareTo(t) . this is why because if 2 string frequency is same then we need to lexographiclly smaller and we let it remove. higher lexographically string. and let it keep smaller 

code

```java
class Solution {

    public List<String> topKFrequent(String[] words, int k) {

        HashMap<String,Integer> map = new HashMap<>();

        for(String s:words){

            map.put(s,map.getOrDefault(s,0)+1);

        }

        PriorityQueue<String> pq = new PriorityQueue<>((String t,String o)->{

            if(map.get(t)==map.get(o)){

                return o.compareTo(t);

            }

            return map.get(t)-map.get(o);

        });

        for(String s:map.keySet()){

            pq.add(s);

            if(pq.size()>k){

                pq.remove();

            }

        }

        List<String>  ans = new ArrayList<>();

        while(pq.size()>0){

            ans.add(pq.remove());

        }

      Collections.reverse(ans);

        return ans;

    }

}
```

Given an array of strings `words` and an integer `k`, return _the_ `k` _most frequent strings_.

Return the answer **sorted** by **the frequency** from highest to lowest. Sort the words with the same frequency by their **lexicographical order**.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** words = ["i","love","leetcode","i","love","coding"], k = 2
**Output:** ["i","love"]
**Explanation:** "i" and "love" are the two most frequent words.
Note that "i" comes before "love" due to a lower alphabetical order.

**Example 2:**

**Input:** words = ["the","day","is","sunny","the","the","the","sunny","is","is"], k = 4
**Output:** ["the","is","sunny","day"]
**Explanation:** "the", "is", "sunny" and "day" are the four most frequent words, with the number of occurrence being 4, 3, 2 and 1 respectively.

**Constraints:**

-   `1 <= words.length <= 500`
-   `1 <= words[i].length <= 10`
-   `words[i]` consists of lowercase English letters.
-   `k` is in the range `[1, The number of **unique** words[i]]`

**Follow-up:** Could you solve it in `O(n log(k))` time and `O(n)` extra space?