-   Treat all state in React as immutable.
-   When you store objects in state, mutating them will not trigger renders and will change the state in previous render “snapshots”.
-   Instead of mutating an object, create a _new_ version of it, and trigger a re-render by setting state to it.
-   You can use the `{...obj, something: 'newValue'}` object spread syntax to create copies of objects.
-   Spread syntax is shallow: it only copies one level deep.
-   To update a nested object, you need to create copies all the way up from the place you’re updating.
-   To reduce repetitive copying code, use Immer.


# Example

This might remind you of a waiter taking an order at the restaurant. A waiter doesn’t run to the kitchen at the mention of your first dish! Instead, they let you finish your order, let you make changes to it, and even take orders from other people at the table.


## Updating the same state multiple times before the next render [](https://react.dev/learn/queueing-a-series-of-state-updates#updating-the-same-state-multiple-times-before-the-next-render "Link for Updating the same state multiple times before the next render")

It is an uncommon use case, but if you would like to update the same state variable multiple times before the next render, instead of passing the _next state value_ like `setNumber(number + 1)`, you can pass a _function_ that calculates the next state based on the previous one in the queue, like `setNumber(n => n + 1)`. It is a way to tell React to “do something with the state value” instead of just replacing it.


