Code/DSA/Leetcode/Tree/Tree - Recursion/Easy/104. Maximum Depth of Binary Tree.md, before:


[104. Maximum Depth of Binary Tree](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-depth-of-binary-tree/)

[# Max Depth of Binary Tree](https://www.interviewbit.com/problems/max-depth-of-binary-tree/#:~:text=The%20maximum%20depth%20of%20a,end%20on%20a%20leaf%20node.&text=max%20depth%20%3D%202.)

The maximum depth of a binary tree is the number of nodes along the longest path from the root node down to the farthest leaf node.

> **NOTE :** The path has to end on a leaf node.



The maximum depth is the number of nodes along the longest path from the root node down to the farthest leaf node.

For example:

Given binary tree [3,9,20,null,null,15,7],

    3  
   / \  
  9  20  
    /  \  
   15   7

return its depth = 3.



**Algorithm:**

1.  In order to find the maximum depth of the binary tree as a whole, at each node one has to determine which among its left and right subtrees have a greater depth. This situation presents an ideal case for recursion.
2.  When it comes to recursion, determining base condition(s) is of paramount importance. In this problem, one intuitive base case shall be when we reach the leaf node. The other base case can be when the node under examination is null.
3.  If the node is null, then it’s depth is 0. If it is a leaf node, then its depth (counting itself as well) is 1. Otherwise in order to determine the which of the two subtrees have greater depth, we recursively compute the maximum depth of the left and right children, and return the summation of 1 (to account for itself) and the greater subtree depth.



**Test:**

1.  Root node/Tree is null.
2.  Left/Right Skewed Trees.
3.  Tree with equally deep left and right subtrees.
4.  Tree with one subtree deeper than the other.

```java
/**

* Definition for a binary tree node.

* public class TreeNode {

* int val;

* TreeNode left;

* TreeNode right;

* TreeNode(int x) { val = x; }

* }

*/

public class Solution {

public int maxDepth(TreeNode root) {

if(root == null) {

return 0;

}

if(root.left == null && root.right == null){

return 1;

}

else{

int l = maxDepth(root.left);

int r = maxDepth(root.right);

return (1 + ((l > r) ? l : r));

//T O(n) S O(n)

}

}

}
```


**Complexity Analysis:**

Since in order to compute depth, we end up visiting each node recursively, therefore the time complexity is T O(n). Space complexity is O(n), the space cost incurred on the stack size because of recursion calls.



**Solution 1:**

**Intuition + Approach:** **Using LEVEL ORDER TRAVERSAL**

If we observe carefully, the depth of the Binary Tree is the number of levels in the binary tree. So, if we simply do a level order traversal on the binary tree and keep a count of the number of levels, it will be our answer.


![](https://i.imgur.com/921LMqE.png)


In this example, if we start traversing the tree level-wise, then we can reach at max Level 4, so our answer is 4. Because the maximum depth we can achieve is indicated by the last level at which we can travel.


```java
public class tUf {

    private static int levelOrder( TreeNode root ){

        if( root == null ){

            return 0;

        }

  

        LinkedList<TreeNode> queue = new LinkedList<>();

        queue.addLast(root);

  

        int level = 0;

  

        while( queue.size() > 0 ){

            int size = queue.size();

  

            while( size-- > 0 ){

                TreeNode remNode = queue.removeFirst();

                if( remNode.left != null ){

                    queue.addLast( remNode.left );

                }

                if( remNode.right != null ){

                        queue.addLast( remNode.right );

                }

            }

  

            level++;

        }

  

        return level;

    }  

}
```

**Time Complexity:** O(N) 

**Space Complexity:** O(N) ( Queue data structure is used )

**Solution 2:**

**Intuition: Recursively ( Post Order Traversal )**

If we have to do it recursively, then what we can think of is, If I have Maximum Depth of Left subtree and Maximum Depth of Right subtree then what will be the height or depth of the tree?

Exactly,

**1 + max(depth of left subtree, depth of right subtree)**

So, to calculate the Maximum Depth, we can simply take the maximum of the depths of the left and right subtree and add 1 to it.

Why take Maximum?? Because we need maximum depth so if we know left & right children’s maximum depth then we’ll definitely get to the maximum depth of the entire tree.

**Approach :** 

-   We start to travel recursively and do our work in Post Order.
-    Reason behind using Post Order comes from our intuition , that if we know the result of  left and right child then we can calculate the result using that. 
-   This is exactly an indication of PostOrder, because in PostOrder we already calculated results for left and right children than we do it for current node.
-   So for every node post order, we do Max( left result , right result ) + 1 and return it to the previous call.
-   Base Case is when root == null so we need to return 0;

**Dry Run :**

In Post Order, we start to travel on the example given in the below diagram


![](https://i.imgur.com/DFxOB4F.png)



-   Reach on **Node 10** , Left child = null so 0 , Right child = null so 0 & add 1 for node 10 so max depth till node 10 is max(0,0) + 1 = 1. 
-   Reach on **Node 2** , Left child = null so 0 , Right child = will give 1 & add 1 for node 2 so max depth till node 2 is max(0,1) + 1 = 2.
-   Reach on **Node 8** , Left child = null so 0 , Right child = null so 0 & add 1 for node 8 so max depth till node 8 is max(0,0) + 1 = 1.
-   Reach on **Node 11** , Left child = null so 0 , Right child = null so 0 & add 1 for node 11 so max depth till node 11 is max(0,0) + 1 = 1.
-   Reach on **Node 3** , Left child will give 1 , Right child = will give 1 & add 1 for node 3 so max depth till node 3 is max(1,1) + 1 = 2.
-   Reach on **Node 4** , Left child = null so 0 , Right child = null so 0 & add 1 for node 4 so max depth till node 4 is max(0,0) + 1 = 1.
-   Reach on **Node 5** , Left child will give 2 , Right child = will give 1 & add 1 for node 5 so max depth till node 5 is max(2,1) + 1 = 3.
-   Reach on **Node 12** , Left child will give 2 , Right child = will give 3 & add 1 for node 12 so max depth till node 12 is max(2,3) + 1 = 4.
-   Hence 4 is our final ans.

```java
class Solution {

    public int maxDepth(TreeNode root) {

        if(root == null) return 0;

        int lh = maxDepth(root.left);

        int rh = maxDepth(root.right);

        return 1 + Math.max(lh, rh);

    }

}
```

**Time Complexity:** O(N) 

**Space Complexity:** O(1) Extra Space + O(H) Recursion Stack space, where **“H”**  is the height of the binary tree.



# Another Examples

```java
/**

 * Definition for a binary tree node.

 * public class TreeNode {

 *     int val;

 *     TreeNode left;

 *     TreeNode right;

 *     TreeNode() {}

 *     TreeNode(int val) { this.val = val; }

 *     TreeNode(int val, TreeNode left, TreeNode right) {

 *         this.val = val;

 *         this.left = left;

 *         this.right = right;

 *     }

 * }

 */

class Solution {

    public int maxDepth(TreeNode root) {

        if(root==null) return 0;

        int l = maxDepth(root.left);

        int r = maxDepth(root.right);

        return 1+ Math.max(l,r);

    }

}
```

```java
```java
/**
 * Definition for a binary tree node.
 * public class TreeNode {
 *     int val;
 *     TreeNode left;
 *     TreeNode right;
 *     TreeNode() {}
 *     TreeNode(int val) { this.val = val; }
 *     TreeNode(int val, TreeNode left, TreeNode right) {
 *         this.val = val;
 *         this.left = left;
 *         this.right = right;
 *     }
 * }
 */
class Solution {
    public int maxDepth(TreeNode root) {
        int max=0;
        return root==null ? 0 : Math.max(max,Math.max(maxDepth(root.left),maxDepth(root.right)))+1;
    }
}
```



```java
/**
 * Definition for a binary tree node.
 * public class TreeNode {
 *     int val;
 *     TreeNode left;
 *     TreeNode right;
 *     TreeNode() {}
 *     TreeNode(int val) { this.val = val; }
 *     TreeNode(int val, TreeNode left, TreeNode right) {
 *         this.val = val;
 *         this.left = left;
 *         this.right = right;
 *     }
 * }
 */
class Solution {
    public int maxDepth(TreeNode root) {
        if(root==null) return 0;
        int max=0;
         max = Math.max(max,Math.max(maxDepth(root.left),maxDepth(root.right)));
        return  max+1;
        
    }
}
```

Commit message:

depth max
Co-Authored-By: not-just <114912156+not-just@users.noreply.github.com>

Code/DSA/Leetcode/Tree/Tree - Recursion/Easy/104. Maximum Depth of Binary Tree.md, after:


# Maximum Depth or Height of given Binary Tree
[104. Maximum Depth of Binary Tree](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-depth-of-binary-tree/)

[# Max Depth of Binary Tree](https://www.interviewbit.com/problems/max-depth-of-binary-tree/#:~:text=The%20maximum%20depth%20of%20a,end%20on%20a%20leaf%20node.&text=max%20depth%20%3D%202.)

The maximum depth of a binary tree is the number of nodes along the longest path from the root node down to the farthest leaf node.

> **NOTE :** The path has to end on a leaf node.



The maximum depth is the number of nodes along the longest path from the root node down to the farthest leaf node.

For example:

Given binary tree [3,9,20,null,null,15,7],

    3  
   / \  
  9  20  
    /  \  
   15   7

return its depth = 3.



**Algorithm:**

1.  In order to find the maximum depth of the binary tree as a whole, at each node one has to determine which among its left and right subtrees have a greater depth. This situation presents an ideal case for recursion.
2.  When it comes to recursion, determining base condition(s) is of paramount importance. In this problem, one intuitive base case shall be when we reach the leaf node. The other base case can be when the node under examination is null.
3.  If the node is null, then it’s depth is 0. If it is a leaf node, then its depth (counting itself as well) is 1. Otherwise in order to determine the which of the two subtrees have greater depth, we recursively compute the maximum depth of the left and right children, and return the summation of 1 (to account for itself) and the greater subtree depth.



**Test:**

1.  Root node/Tree is null.
2.  Left/Right Skewed Trees.
3.  Tree with equally deep left and right subtrees.
4.  Tree with one subtree deeper than the other.

```java
/**

* Definition for a binary tree node.

* public class TreeNode {

* int val;

* TreeNode left;

* TreeNode right;

* TreeNode(int x) { val = x; }

* }

*/

public class Solution {

public int maxDepth(TreeNode root) {

if(root == null) {

return 0;

}

if(root.left == null && root.right == null){

return 1;

}

else{

int l = maxDepth(root.left);

int r = maxDepth(root.right);

return (1 + ((l > r) ? l : r));

//T O(n) S O(n)

}

}

}
```


**Complexity Analysis:**

Since in order to compute depth, we end up visiting each node recursively, therefore the time complexity is T O(n). Space complexity is O(n), the space cost incurred on the stack size because of recursion calls.



**Solution 1:**

**Intuition + Approach:** **Using LEVEL ORDER TRAVERSAL**

If we observe carefully, the depth of the Binary Tree is the number of levels in the binary tree. So, if we simply do a level order traversal on the binary tree and keep a count of the number of levels, it will be our answer.


![](https://i.imgur.com/921LMqE.png)


In this example, if we start traversing the tree level-wise, then we can reach at max Level 4, so our answer is 4. Because the maximum depth we can achieve is indicated by the last level at which we can travel.


```java
public class tUf {

    private static int levelOrder( TreeNode root ){

        if( root == null ){

            return 0;

        }

  

        LinkedList<TreeNode> queue = new LinkedList<>();

        queue.addLast(root);

  

        int level = 0;

  

        while( queue.size() > 0 ){

            int size = queue.size();

  

            while( size-- > 0 ){

                TreeNode remNode = queue.removeFirst();

                if( remNode.left != null ){

                    queue.addLast( remNode.left );

                }

                if( remNode.right != null ){

                        queue.addLast( remNode.right );

                }

            }

  

            level++;

        }

  

        return level;

    }  

}
```

**Time Complexity:** O(N) 

**Space Complexity:** O(N) ( Queue data structure is used )

**Solution 2:**

**Intuition: Recursively ( Post Order Traversal )**

If we have to do it recursively, then what we can think of is, If I have Maximum Depth of Left subtree and Maximum Depth of Right subtree then what will be the height or depth of the tree?

Exactly,

**1 + max(depth of left subtree, depth of right subtree)**

So, to calculate the Maximum Depth, we can simply take the maximum of the depths of the left and right subtree and add 1 to it.

Why take Maximum?? Because we need maximum depth so if we know left & right children’s maximum depth then we’ll definitely get to the maximum depth of the entire tree.

**Approach :** 

-   We start to travel recursively and do our work in Post Order.
-    Reason behind using Post Order comes from our intuition , that if we know the result of  left and right child then we can calculate the result using that. 
-   This is exactly an indication of PostOrder, because in PostOrder we already calculated results for left and right children than we do it for current node.
-   So for every node post order, we do Max( left result , right result ) + 1 and return it to the previous call.
-   Base Case is when root == null so we need to return 0;

**Dry Run :**

In Post Order, we start to travel on the example given in the below diagram


![](https://i.imgur.com/DFxOB4F.png)



-   Reach on **Node 10** , Left child = null so 0 , Right child = null so 0 & add 1 for node 10 so max depth till node 10 is max(0,0) + 1 = 1. 
-   Reach on **Node 2** , Left child = null so 0 , Right child = will give 1 & add 1 for node 2 so max depth till node 2 is max(0,1) + 1 = 2.
-   Reach on **Node 8** , Left child = null so 0 , Right child = null so 0 & add 1 for node 8 so max depth till node 8 is max(0,0) + 1 = 1.
-   Reach on **Node 11** , Left child = null so 0 , Right child = null so 0 & add 1 for node 11 so max depth till node 11 is max(0,0) + 1 = 1.
-   Reach on **Node 3** , Left child will give 1 , Right child = will give 1 & add 1 for node 3 so max depth till node 3 is max(1,1) + 1 = 2.
-   Reach on **Node 4** , Left child = null so 0 , Right child = null so 0 & add 1 for node 4 so max depth till node 4 is max(0,0) + 1 = 1.
-   Reach on **Node 5** , Left child will give 2 , Right child = will give 1 & add 1 for node 5 so max depth till node 5 is max(2,1) + 1 = 3.
-   Reach on **Node 12** , Left child will give 2 , Right child = will give 3 & add 1 for node 12 so max depth till node 12 is max(2,3) + 1 = 4.
-   Hence 4 is our final ans.

```java
class Solution {

    public int maxDepth(TreeNode root) {

        if(root == null) return 0;

        int lh = maxDepth(root.left);

        int rh = maxDepth(root.right);

        return 1 + Math.max(lh, rh);

    }

}
```

**Time Complexity:** O(N) 

**Space Complexity:** O(1) Extra Space + O(H) Recursion Stack space, where **“H”**  is the height of the binary tree.



# Another Examples

```java
/**

 * Definition for a binary tree node.

 * public class TreeNode {

 *     int val;

 *     TreeNode left;

 *     TreeNode right;

 *     TreeNode() {}

 *     TreeNode(int val) { this.val = val; }

 *     TreeNode(int val, TreeNode left, TreeNode right) {

 *         this.val = val;

 *         this.left = left;

 *         this.right = right;

 *     }

 * }

 */

class Solution {

    public int maxDepth(TreeNode root) {

        if(root==null) return 0;

        int l = maxDepth(root.left);

        int r = maxDepth(root.right);

        return 1+ Math.max(l,r);

    }

}
```

```java
```java
/**
 * Definition for a binary tree node.
 * public class TreeNode {
 *     int val;
 *     TreeNode left;
 *     TreeNode right;
 *     TreeNode() {}
 *     TreeNode(int val) { this.val = val; }
 *     TreeNode(int val, TreeNode left, TreeNode right) {
 *         this.val = val;
 *         this.left = left;
 *         this.right = right;
 *     }
 * }
 */
class Solution {
    public int maxDepth(TreeNode root) {
        int max=0;
        return root==null ? 0 : Math.max(max,Math.max(maxDepth(root.left),maxDepth(root.right)))+1;
    }
}
```



```java
/**
 * Definition for a binary tree node.
 * public class TreeNode {
 *     int val;
 *     TreeNode left;
 *     TreeNode right;
 *     TreeNode() {}
 *     TreeNode(int val) { this.val = val; }
 *     TreeNode(int val, TreeNode left, TreeNode right) {
 *         this.val = val;
 *         this.left = left;
 *         this.right = right;
 *     }
 * }
 */
class Solution {
    public int maxDepth(TreeNode root) {
        if(root==null) return 0;
        int max=0;
         max = Math.max(max,Math.max(maxDepth(root.left),maxDepth(root.right)));
        return  max+1;
        
    }
}
```
