In JavaScript, arrays are just another kind of object. [Like with objects](https://react.dev/learn/updating-objects-in-state), **you should treat arrays in React state as read-only.** This means that you shouldn’t reassign items inside an array like `arr[0] = 'bird'`, and you also shouldn’t use methods that mutate the array, such as `push()` and `pop()`.

Instead, every time you want to update an array, you’ll want to pass a _new_ array to your state setting function. To do that, you can create a new array from the original array in your state by calling its non-mutating methods like `filter()` and `map()`. Then you can set your state to the resulting new array.

Here is a reference table of common array operations. When dealing with arrays inside React state, you will need to avoid the methods in the left column, and instead prefer the methods in the right column:


# avoid (mutates the array)

**adding**

	`push`, `unshift`

**removing**

	`pop`, `shift`, `splice`

**replacing**

	`splice`, `arr[i] = ...`

**sorting**

	`reverse`, `sort`


# prefer (returns a new array)

- concat`, `[...arr]` spread syntax
- `filter`, `slice`
- `map`
- `copy the array first`

Alternatively, you can [use Immer](https://react.dev/learn/updating-arrays-in-state#write-concise-update-logic-with-immer) which lets you use methods from both columns.



Unfortunately, [`slice`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/slice) and [`splice`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/splice) are named similarly but are very different:

-   `slice` lets you copy an array or a part of it.
-   `splice` **mutates** the array (to insert or delete items).

In React, you will be using `slice` (no `p`!) a lot more often because you don’t want to mutate objects or arrays in state.


